5 reasons why you should travel this weekend to italy 
bdegiulio profile image
Bill De Giulio  more
Traveling has always been one of my passions. It exposes us to new cultures, experiences, and makes the world a better, more tolerant place.
Contact Author
The Colosseum
The Colosseum | Source
I’m pretty sure I could come up with at least a hundred different reasons why one should visit Italy. This is not a difficult list to come up with, but for the sake of space and brevity I limited the list to ten really good reasons to visit.

It seems as though visiting Italy is a bucket list entry for a lot of folks and my job here is to convince you to go so you can cross this one off of your list. Italy certainly does have much to offer: spectacular cities, ancient ruins, wonderful museums, soaring mountains, great beaches, and beautiful natural scenery. But so does any number of other European countries, so we need uncover what makes Italy so unique and worthy of your hard-earned dollars.

One of the great joys of traveling through Italy is discovering firsthand that it is, indeed, a dream destination.
— Debra Lavinson
#1: Rome
There is really no other city quite like Rome in the world. While Rome wants to be a modern 21st century city, it is desperately trying to keep it historical ruins and monuments from crumbling. The city is really one large archaeological dig that continues to discover its 2,800 years of history. And preserving its past continues to be a monumental task for this city of 2.8 million people. To be able to walk through the Colosseum and the Roman Forum, where the likes of Romulus, Julius Caesar, and Nero once ruled, is a walk back in time.

Castel Sant'Angelo
Castel Sant'Angelo | Source
If you love history, architecture, museums, great food, shopping, historical monuments, and great gelato, then head to Rome. As an added benefit to any visit, you get to also visit Vatican City, which is an amazing destination in its own right. These incredible ancient ruins and monuments might not last forever, so start planning a visit now.

The rooftops of Rome- Pantheon to the left, Victor Emmanuel Monument.
The rooftops of Rome- Pantheon to the left, Victor Emmanuel Monument. | Source
#2: Venice
The Grand Canal
The Grand Canal | Source
Okay, the truth be told about Venice is that it’s old, sinking into the lagoon, floods occasionally, and sometimes smells. What other city on this planet can claim a list like this and still be one of the most sought after destinations in the world? Maybe everyone wants to visit Venice before it disappears into the Adriatic and becomes the lost city of Venice?


In all my travels, I've had only two “wow” moments in my life: The first came when I saw the Grand Canyon for the first time, and the second came when I stepped onto the plaza from the train station into the wonderful world of Venice.

Did I mention that it’s also colorful, full of life, has amazing churches and museums, great seafood, amazing shopping, and is just one of the most fun places you’ll ever visit?

Venice
Venice | Source
#3: Florence
The Duomo of Florence
The Duomo of Florence | Source
Okay, so the top three are Rome, Venice, and Florence. There’s really no mystery here. If you were to ask visitors to Italy what their favorite Italian city was, I would venture to guess that for many it might be Florence.

Florence is just right in so many ways. The city is just the right size to make it one of the most walkable cities in Italy. The centerpiece of Florence is without a doubt the magnificent Basilica di Santa Maria del Fiore, otherwise known as the Duomo, and it should not be missed. This city is the rightful birthplace of the Renaissance and is loaded with wonderful art, architecture, and some of the finest museums in the world, the Uffizi and the Galleria dell’ Accademia. Florence truly is of the most beautiful cities in the world.

Florence from the top of the Duomo
Florence from the top of the Duomo | Source
#4: Cinque Terre
While many people will argue that the Amalfi Coast should appear on this list, I could not resist placing the Cinque Terre region here in the number four spot. Virtually unknown to Americans twenty-five years ago, this beautiful coastal region of Italy is simply spectacular. Its five villages are all unique and connected by a network of trails that vary in difficulty and distance. And if hiking is not your thing, don’t despair— the local train connects all five villages, as does the local ferry system, except for Corniglia, which is perched high up on a cliff above the sea.

Vernazza
Vernazza | Source
The pace here is laid back and that is how the locals prefer it. There are no resorts, only B&Bs, apartments, and small hotels. And if you love seafood, then you have certainly come to the right place. Tourism, fishing, and farming the terraced hillsides are the only industries here. If you want to see one of the most beautiful coastlines in the world, then add Cinque Terre to your list of must-see places.


#5: Val d’Orcia
Manarola
Manarola | Source
Reason Number 5: Val d’Orcia

Tuscany encompasses a pretty large area of central Italy, so I’m going to narrow this down to the Val d’Orcia region. Why? Because of its beautiful rolling hills and wonderful medieval hilltop towns. This area of Italy is pure heaven. Stretching from Siena in the north to Montepulciano in the east, and including Pienza, Montalcino, and Monticchiello, this area makes for a great road tour. Get lost on the cyprus lined back roads of the Val d’Orcia and you are bound to have your breath taken away by the beautiful rolling landscape of this region. Find an Agriturismo, rent a car for a few days, and discover this region of Italy that is famous for its wine and photographic beauty
